CLDR-17177 kbd: layers / modifiers update (#3497)
unicode-org/cldr: docs/ldml/tr35-keyboards.md

**Syntax**

```xml

> <layer id="layerId" modifiers="…modifier modifier, …modifier modifier, …">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<layer id="…layerId" modifiers="…modifier modifier, …modifier modifier, …">
```

>
> For hardware layouts, the use of `@modifiers` as an identifier for a layer is sufficient since it is always unique among the set of `layer` elements in each  `form`.
>
> This attribute is a list of lists. It is a comma-separated (`,`) list of modifier sets, and each modifier set is a space-separated list of modifier components.
>

> > The set of modifiers must match `(none|([A-Za-z0-9]+)( [A-Za-z0-9]+)*)(,[ ]?([A-Za-z0-9]+)( [A-Za-z0-9]+)*)*`

Reviewer: Thoughts:
* This regex prevents extra whitespace between modifiers. Is that intended?
* This regex is hard enough to read that I wonder if it is helpful to include in the spec?
* Apart from `_`, the character classes here are just `\w`. Could we go with:

`(none|\w+([ ]+\w+)*(,[ ]*\w+([ ]+\w+)*)*`

Reviewer 2: I find it is simpler to say and easier to understand as:  

Each modifier in each set must match `[A-Za-z0-9]+`

I assume that extra whitespace is ok, eg ctrl, crtl  shift,shift

Author: Also should be "This attribute is either `none` or a list of lists.. " and add that extra whitespace is not significant.

>
> This attribute is a list of lists. It is a comma-separated (`,`) list of modifier sets, and each modifier set is a space-separated list of modifier components.
>

> > Each modifier component must mach `[A-Za-z0-9]+`. Extra whitespace is ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Each modifier component must match `[A-Za-z0-9]+`. Extra whitespace is ignored.
```

</layer>
```

#### Layer Modifier Sets

> The `@modifiers` attribute contains one or more Layer Modifier Sets, separated by commas.

Author: good point, thanks, done

For example, in the element `<layer … modifiers="ctrlL altL, altR" …` the attribute consists of two sets:

- `ctrlL altL` (two components)
- `altR` (one component)

> The order of the sets and the order of the components within each set is not significant.

Reviewer 2: I'm not seeing a reason for not having a canonical representation; that allows comparison of two files to return whether the are equivalent. It is also the format that you'd want processing tools to emit.

There might be a good reason; I'd just like to know.

> The order of the sets and the order of the components within each set is not significant.

Author: I thought I accepted this change first.

> The order of the sets and the order of the components within each set is not significant.

Author: @macchiati I went through and double checked your review comments.  I had accepted your suggestion of a canonical ordering in https://github.com/unicode-org/cldr/pull/3497/commits/0982276d53b3594e4b74848822e8f407a4db157f perhaps it didn't show up properly somehow?

1. `L` or `R` indicates a left- or right- side modifier only (such as `altL`)
 whereas `alt` indicates _either_ left or right alt key (that is, `altL` or `altR`). `ctrl` indicates either left or right ctrl key (that is, `ctrlL` or `ctrlR`).

> 2. Keyboard authors will be warned if a keyboard mixes `alt` with `altL`/`altR`, or `ctrl` with `ctrlL`/`ctrlR`.

Reviewer 2: That is incorrect wording for a spec. I assume you mean something like:
```suggestion
2. Keyboard implementations must warn keyboard authors if a keyboard mixes `alt` with `altL`/`altR`, or `ctrl` with `ctrlL`/`ctrlR`.
```

> 2. Keyboard implementations must warn keyboard authors if a keyboard mixes `alt` with `altL`/`altR`, or `ctrl` with `ctrlL`/`ctrlR`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Mixing `alt` with `altL`/`altR`, or `ctrl` with `ctrlL`/`ctrlR`, is strongly discouraged. Keyboard implementations detect and should warn keyboard authors if this occurs.
```

We can't say "must" if there might not be a UI for alerting authors.

Author: As this is an interchange format, it's assumed that there could be a UI or similar (such as a build step which could fail).

Reviewer 2: The phrasing is just weird. I author a keyboard, send it to you, you run a program on it. How does the program know who I am to notify me? Maybe "must emit a detect and emit a warning"?

Author: changed.

- `other` as a modifier will match if no other layers match.

Multiple modifier sets are separated by commas.  For example, `none, shift caps` will match either no modifiers *or* shift and caps.  `ctrlL altL, altR` will match either  left-control and left-alt, *or* right-alt.

> Keystrokes processed where there isn’t an explicitly matching layer, and where there is no layer with `other` specified, are ignored.

Reviewer 3: What does "keystrokes" mean here? Do you ignore the key pressed if it does not result in a layer? For example, if there is a layer `ctrl` and you press `ctrl` and then add `shift`, the shift is ignored and layer `ctrl` matches? Perhaps it's just wording, "key combinations"? It would be good to add some example. "For example, if only `none`, `caps` and `shift` layers exist, pressing `caps` and `shift` will result in no output.

Author: Yes, it's then ignored if it doesn't result in a layer. I'll add an example.

> Keystrokes processed where there isn’t an explicitly matching layer, and where there is no layer with `other` specified, are ignored. Example: If there is a `ctrl` and `shift` layer, but no `ctrl shift` nor `other` layer, no output will result from `ctrl shift X`.

Reviewer 2: Awkward sentence
```suggestion
Keystrokes must be ignored where there isn’t a layer that explicitly matches nor a layer with `other`. Example: If there is a `ctrl` and `shift` layer, but no `ctrl shift` nor `other` layer, no output will result from `ctrl shift X`.
```

Layers are not allowed to overlap in their matching.  For example, the keyboard author will receive an error if one layer specifies `alt shift` and another layer specifies `altR shift`.

> The order of `<layer>` elements is not significant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The order of `<layer>` elements is thus not significant.
```

Author: good update, thanks

> - `other` as a modifier will match if no other layers match.

Reviewer 3: Just to clarify, do we support combining `other` with others? Like `shit others` to match both shift with anything else and shift alone.

Author: No, it would be `shift, other`

Multiple modifier sets are separated by commas.  For example, `none, shift caps` will match either no modifiers *or* shift and caps.  `ctrlL altL, altR` will match either  left-control and left-alt, *or* right-alt.

Keystrokes must be ignored where there isn’t a layer that explicitly matches nor a layer with `other`. Example: If there is a `ctrl` and `shift` layer, but no `ctrl shift` nor `other` layer, no output will result from `ctrl shift X`.

> Layers are not allowed to overlap in their matching.  For example, the keyboard author will receive an error if one layer specifies `alt shift` and another layer specifies `altR shift`.
> 
> There is one special case:  the `other` layer matches if and only if no other layer matches. Thus logically the `other` layer is matched after all other layers have been checked.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Layers are not allowed to overlap in their matching.  For example, the keyboard author will receive an error if one layer specifies `alt shift` and another layer specifies `altR shift`.
There is one special case:  the `other` layer matches if and only if no other layer matches. Thus logically the `other` layer is matched after all other layers have been checked.
```

Reviewer 2: Should be 1 paragraph

Because there is no overlap allowed between layers, the order of `<layer>` elements is not significant.

> > Note: The modifier syntax may be enhanced in the future. but will remain backwards compatible with the syntax described here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: The modifier syntax may be enhanced in the future, but will remain backwards compatible with the syntax described here.
```

Reviewer 2: Huh? It is correcting an obvious typo.

Author: That change was accepted in https://github.com/unicode-org/cldr/pull/3497/commits/0982276d53b3594e4b74848822e8f407a4db157f
